So this topic is discussing about the map and related questions.
There are six related questions to this topic.
Any programming language has various data structures.
In JavaScript, we have arrays and object literals, which are very powerful and commonly used data
structures.
But in E6 there are few more data structures introduced and they are map.
Weak, map set and weak said.
In this section we are discussing the map data structure in object literal.
We have key and data values.
MAP is also similar, but in case of map, the keys can also have types like string number, boolean,
etc..
In fact, this is the collection or data structure where you are mapping value to value.
Also, values inserted in map collection are retrieved in the same order.
There are other good features of map, but at the moment, without wasting any time in discussion,
let's jump into an example.
To create a map, we use the map constructor.
So, for example, I'll say LED product is equal to new map.
Now comes the time where you have to assign the key and value.
And as I mentioned in the beginning, that you can have different types of key as well.
Let me show you that there is a method called set method which allows you to assign key and value.
So I'll say product dot set.
Say, for example, product code, which I want to make a string key.
So I'll put in single quotes and the value, for example, is 1001.
Now let's try a few more data types.
Let's say I just want to give a number one and I'll say Apple, though this value doesn't make much
sense at the moment, but we are trying to understand how the various types of keys we can assign.
So I'm going to add one more example.
In that case, I'll say just true and for example, available something like this.
So this is a map we have created which has three key value pairs.
Now, let me just straight away display the value of the product map.
So I'll say product, let's run the code.
I'll say node mapped out.
Yes.
Now you see that the keys which are displayed, not all the keys are in code like because is in quotes.
One is as it is and true, which is a boolean value is also as it is.
So this in a way shows that the types are maintained.
Now this key and value which you see this key can be value itself.
It is in fact a value.
It is a value to value mapping as well.
Now, let's also try to get a specific value in case if you want to, let's say, find a key which is
named one.
So I can say here product dot get this get is the method which allows you to find a specific value by
giving a key only.
So let me run this again.
Now you see that it displays Apple here because the key of Apple is when in fact we can try this with
true.
Also, I'll say true.
Again, let's run this.
You see this it displays available.
There is also one more useful property with map which we don't have with object later.
And that is the size property.
Size property actually returns the count of key value pair.
So let's say instead of get at the moment, I'll simply say size and you see that it displays three.
That means there are three key value pair, so it returns account with array.
We have length property, but with object literals we do not have anything.
We can write the coding but we don't have any direct property to get the size which we have with the
map collection, the way we have used the set method to assign a value because map is also a data structure.
We also have another way.
Let's say, for example, instead of set method, I can say product.
Then I'll put the scribe records, which we can do with object literal.
Here I can say price for example, and I say 300 right now.
Let me just display the product itself.
I'll say execute it.
Now you see that the collection we have here, it has product called one true and price as well.
So we have added price in the collection for short.
But this way is not a very preferable way.
And the reason is when you give a key like this, it actually behaves like a key of object literal.
So here the type will not be maintained.
So the unique way of map where Key has its own type, that will not be applied in this case.
So ideally, when it comes to assigning value, that is key and value.
We don't go with this way, this syntax.
Instead, we prefer to go with the set method only.
So coming to the set method set is one of the method which returns the map as well.
Like when you say product dot set, it returns a map.
Every product dot said returns a map.
And if it returns a map, that means you can further change it.
So instead of writing this way, let me remove all these semicolons and also I'm removing the product,
right?
So now this becomes a changing syntax, isn't it?
Like this?
This is also a valid way of creating a map.
So you don't write the product.
That is the map name all the times with this method, because set method returns the map itself.
So further, you can change it.
Let me run the code and see that it is working absolutely fine.
Another excellent advantage of map over object or a simple object.
But you can say object literal.
Is that map is it rebel?
We have already seen with it returns concept that we were not able to iterate through object literals
right then we had to use it returns for that.
But map is something which is already iterable.
It means we can loop through the map collection.
There are three methods we can use while implementing the iterations over the map.
These three matters are values guys these and Andres.
Let's try all the matters now here practically.
I'm going to use the follow up where I'll say, for example, first thing we are trying is the values
method.
So I'll say V, for example, let V of product, not values.
Values is the matter which is going to return all the values.
And one by one let's try to display also which will be inside.
V Now I'll just clear this and I done it.
So now you see that 1001 apple and available.
These are the three values we have here so values helps you to loop through all the values of man now
instead of values.
If I just see, for example, keys right now, it doesn't matter whether I give or K, but for better
naming conventions I will use K here.
I'm running the court.
You see this?
It has loop through the entire collection and displayed all the keys.
So we have seen values and keys.
The next matter is the entries matter.
Now, this is one of the very useful matters because it returns both keys and values.
Now, for example, instead of Celtic E as a variable and I'll try to display E, let's do this first.
Now you see that we have the entire collection.
Each value pair you see is displayed as an added.
That is the advantage.
The reason is you can directly d structure these values.
Let's say for example, with LED, I can directly put and add a here where I'll see the first value
returned in this ad.
It is key and then we have value, right?
So here I can see let me take key first and the value second.
So now we have both K and V, I have removed E now.
So here also l display key and we only key and we that's it, right?
In fact, if I want I can put a comma also in between while displaying.
So I'll say I'll use the template literals that is the E6 index.
So it's a dollar I want to display key that will be, let's say, a dash and then I want the value.
We save it and run the code.
So now we see that we have a key value separated with a dash.
So you get this idea that entries is the method which returns both key and value, which you can de
structure like this within the for loop itself.
Now as the map has entries mattered just for the information that we already have an object called capital
or object in JavaScript, which also has entries matter.
Now this is a matter which can be used to convert map into simple object.
Let's try that.
I'll just remove this code at the moment.
Let's say I create object literal.
Here I'll say product code 1001.
Then product name maybe orange.
And let's say price, I'll say 56.
First of all, let's try the object's start entries method.
So I'll say object date entries.
Now what we want in the entries method is I'm going to pass this object.
That's it.
Nothing else.
Now let's run the code.
If you see the output here, the object is converted into Adi.
Where?
That is a sub Adi.
Right.
Which has both key and value mentioned here.
So object node entries convert this object into simple ADI in a way.
Now that Adi, if I pass in the constructor of map method, then this value collection will be converted
into map itself.
Let's try that instead of console.log and remove this.
I'll say for example, let product.
That is the map which we want to create where I'm going to use the constructor and inside the constructor
I'm going to pass object order entries or so whatever is returned by these entries method, which is
going to be this only right.
This output will be part of product.
Now let's display the product itself.
That is the map.
So I'll say product.
Now let's run the court.
So now we have this as a map that is the object literally converted into a map that is also object art
from entities matter which can do reverse.
A map can be converted into a simple object also.
Let's do that.
I'll create a map very quickly.
I'll select product is equal to new map.
Then I'll say product dot set.
Product code 1001.
Now I want to use that chaining though I can continue this way, but let me put it on a new line.
So I'll say product name, orange and set.
Let's say price 56.
Now I want to convert this map into simple objects.
I'll create the object.
And here I'm going to use the from entries method.
Here I'm going to pass product dot entries.
Now we have already seen that entries will return the added values and that will be converted into the
object.
So now if I display the value of object.
Then it gives you the object later, this one.
So in short, object, not entries in object not from entries are very useful sometimes with map when
you want to convert map to simple object or simple object to map.
There is also one more matter called map dot has.
Now this has method takes a key and it checks whether the given key is existing in the map or not.
It's a very simple matter, but let's try once I'll say console.log and here I'm going to say product,
which is a map I want to check.
Does it have a quick or product code or not?
Now, if there is no key, no such key, it's going to return false.
But because we have it here, it returns true.
As long as iteration of MAP is concerned, we can also use the for each which we have with map as well.
We have already seen for each with Addy, but we can use for each with map as well.
Let's quickly try that.
Also, the syntax is very similar for for each it does take a callback function.
So I'm going to write a callback function here and it takes the same parameters.
It does take the value, the key and you must have observed with added that it takes add to here, but
here it takes the maps.
I can just write am here.
So it is the reference of this map itself.
Now here I'll display console.log.
Let's display all the value.
So I'll say V, I want to display one.
We have a dash in between and then I'll put the key.
So both key and value here, value and key in fact that will be displayed.
So let's run and you see the output here so far each is one of the way to iterate through, but you
must remember that for each is something which cannot be broken in between.
It has to finish the entire iteration.
There are also ways to remove items from the map.
The delete matter removes values by key and the player method wipes out everything from the map collection.
Let's quickly go through the example.
Here is a code where I have speaker P name and price and I'm displaying the entire map collection.
Now I will simply write product or delete.
Here you have to specify the key.
So for example, I just want to remove P name and after the deletion also I'm just trying to display
the value of map itself.
Let's run the code.
I'll increase the size.
So as you see that in the first line, the p name is existing and in this section it doesn't exist.
So delete is something which removes a specific key.
But now in case if you just try the clear method here instead of delete, then you do not need to give
any key here.
It just clears everything.
Let's run the code.
So now you see that the map collection earlier has values in it.
That is the second doesn't have any value in it.
Now let's discuss related questions of this topic.
The first question is What are the advantages of using MAP over simple objects?
The first thing is that maps, keys can also be values.
They can be of any data type, which we saw in the beginning of this section.
Whereas in case of objects we have keys as strings.
Though in your JavaScript we also have symbols which we can use as key, but it has a limitation.
Whereas in map you can have keys with data types.
Ordinary value to value mapping is also possible, which doesn't happen with objects.
Second point is that keys are ordered in map.
The insertion and retrieval is always in the same order, whereas keys in objects are not ordered.
Map has size property which returns number of key value pairs, whereas object doesn't have any direct
way.
You need to write the code to get the count of key value pairs.
And the most important that maps are iterable and object is actually not.
Apart from this, there is one more point.
Map is quite optimized for data manipulation compared to objects.
That means the insertion, the deletion, more insertion and more deletion if you have map performs
better than the objects.
The second question is how will you iterate through map?
Now we have already seen that we have values, we have keys and we have entries method, right, that
we can use and we use the for all to loop through the entire map collection.
These methods are useful when we have the iteration over map and of course we can use the for each as
well, which allows you to look through the map collection easily.
The third question is can you assign key values with this index?
Explain the reason for the answer.
Well, writing this way is not that is going to give any added.
But the point is it will behave like a normal or a simple object where your keys become strings only.
So the charm of map, where you have keys with various data types, that won't happen.
So this is a wrong way to assign a key to map.
The first question is how can you convert simple objects to map?
So this is the code which we have already tried.
We are using the object or entries method along with this to convert simple objects to map.
And the fifth question is how can you convert a map into simple objects?
So here is the code we use the from entries method, and then we convert the added values to object.
And the sixth question is how will you remove an item or all items from a map collection?
So we have seen that either we use this delete method and give a key like this, or we can give the
clear method which will remove all the items from the map.